README.md, before:

# Draw Pixels

[Defold engine](http://www.defold.com) native extension for drawing pixels and simple geometry into texture buffer.

Feel free to contribute!

## Installation

You can use the Draw Pixels extension in your own project by adding this project as a [Defold library dependency](http://www.defold.com/manuals/libraries/).
Open your game.project file and in the dependencies field under project add:

>https://github.com/AGulev/drawpixels/archive/master.zip

## Example
![screenshot](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2209596/45321616-7f24e100-b54e-11e8-9821-00b1b2e36a97.jpg)

Main code example is [here](https://github.com/AGulev/drawpixels/blob/master/example/canvas.script)

## Lua API
First of all you need to create a table with a buffer information that contain next fields:

`buffer` - buffer<br />
`width` - buffer width, same as your texture width<br />
`height` - buffer height, same as your texture height<br />
`channels` - 3 for rgb, 4 for rgba<br />

For example:
```lua
local buffer_info = {
    buffer = buffer.create(1024 * 2048, -- size of the buffer width*height
    {{
      name = hash("my_buffer"),
      type = buffer.VALUE_TYPE_UINT8,
      count = 4 -- same as channels
    }}),
    width = 1024,
    height = 2048,
    channels = 4
  }
```
Then when you have a buffer info, you can use next methods:

#### drawpixels.circle(buffer_info, pox_x, pox_y, diameter, red, green, blue, alpha, antialiasing, width)
Method for drawing circle:

`buffer_info` - buffer information<br />
`pox_x` - x position center of the circle<br />
`pox_y` - y position center of the circle<br />
`diameter` - diameter of the circle<br />
`red` - red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green` - green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue` - blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`alpha` - alpha channel 0..255. Optional parameter for rgba textures<br />
`antialiasing` - adds anti-aliasing. Only for 4 channels. Optional parameter.<br />
`width` - indicates the circle width. Only for circle with anti-aliasing. Optional parameter.<br />

#### drawpixels.filled_circle(buffer_info, pos_x, pos_y, diameter, red, green, blue, alpha, antialiasing)
Method for drawing filled circle:

`buffer_info` - buffer information<br />
`pox_x` - x position center of the circle<br />
`pox_y` - y position center of the circle<br />
`diameter` - diameter of the circle<br />
`red` - red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green` - green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue` - blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`alpha` - alpha channel 0..255. Optional parameter for rgba textures<br />
`antialiasing` - adds anti-aliasing. Only for 4 channels. Optional parameter.<br />

#### drawpixels.rect(buffer_info, pos_x, pos_y, rect_width, rect_height, red, green, blue, alpha)
Method for drawing rectangle:

`buffer_info` - buffer information<br />
`pox_x` - x position center of the rectangle<br />
`pox_y` - y position center of the rectangle<br />
`rect_width` - rectangle width<br />
`rect_height` - rectangle height<br />
`red` - red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green` - green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue` - blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`alpha` - alpha channel 0..255. Optional parameter for rgba textures<br />

#### drawpixels.filled_rect(buffer_info, pos_x, pos_y, rect_width, rect_height, red, green, blue, alpha, angle)
Method for drawing filled rectangle:

`buffer_info` - buffer information<br />
`pox_x` - x position center of the rectangle<br />
`pox_y` - y position center of the rectangle<br />
`rect_width` - rectangle width<br />
`rect_height` - rectangle height<br />
`red` - red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green` - green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue` - blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`alpha` - alpha channel 0..255. Optional parameter for rgba textures<br />
`angle` - rotation angle in degrees. Optional.<br />

#### drawpixels.fill(buffer_info, red, green, blue, alpha)
Fill buffer with the color:

`buffer_info` - buffer information<br />
`red` - red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green` - green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue` - blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`alpha` - alpha channel 0..255. Optional parameter for rgba textures<br />

#### drawpixels.line(buffer_info, x0, y0, x1, y1, red, green, blue, alpha, antialiasing, width)
Draw a line between two points:

`buffer_info` - buffer information<br />
`x0` - x position of one end of the line<br />
`y0` - y position of one end of the line<br />
`x1` - x position of the other end of the line<br />
`y1` - y position of the other end of the line<br />
`red` - red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green` - green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue` - blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`alpha` - alpha channel 0..255. Optional parameter for rgba textures<br />
`antialiasing` - adds anti-aliasing. Only for 4 channels. Optional parameter.<br />
`width` - indicates the line width. Only for line with anti-aliasing. Optional parameter.<br />

#### drawpixels.gradient_line(buffer_info, x0, y0, x1, y1, red1, green1, blue1, red2, green2, blue2, alpha, antialiasing, width)
Draw a gradient line between two points:

`buffer_info` - buffer information<br />
`x0` - x position of one end of the line<br />
`y0` - y position of one end of the line<br />
`x1` - x position of the other end of the line<br />
`y1` - y position of the other end of the line<br />
`red1` - first red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green1` - first green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue1` - first blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`red2` - second red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green2` - second green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue2` - second blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`alpha` - alpha channel 0..255<br />
`antialiasing` - adds anti-aliasing. Only for 4 channels. Optional parameter.<br />
`width` - indicates the line width. Only for line with anti-aliasing. Optional parameter.<br />

#### drawpixels.arc(buffer_info, x, y, radius, from, to, red, green, blue, alpha)
Draw a arc between two corners. If from < to the arc is drawn counterclockwise. If from > to the arc is drawn clockwise. Only for 4 channels:

`buffer_info` - buffer information<br />
`x` - x position center of the circle<br />
`y` - y position center of the circle<br />
`radius` - radius of the circle<br />
`from` - first arc angle in radians. May be negative<br />
`to` - second arc angle in radians. May be negative<br />
`red` - red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green` - green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue` - blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`alpha` - alpha channel 0..255<br />

#### drawpixels.filled_arc(buffer_info, x, y, radius, from, to, red, green, blue, alpha)
Draw a filled arc between two corners. If from < to the arc is drawn counterclockwise. If from > to the arc is drawn clockwise. Only for 4 channels:

`buffer_info` - buffer information<br />
`x` - x position center of the circle<br />
`y` - y position center of the circle<br />
`radius` - radius of the circle<br />
`from` - first arc angle in radians. May be negative<br />
`to` - second arc angle in radians. May be negative<br />
`red` - red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green` - green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue` - blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`alpha` - alpha channel 0..255<br />

#### drawpixels.gradient_arc(buffer_info, x, y, radius, from, to, red1, green1, blue1, red2, green2, blue2, alpha)
Draw a gradient arc between two corners. If from < to the arc is drawn counterclockwise. If from > to the arc is drawn clockwise. Only for 4 channels:

`buffer_info` - buffer information<br />
`x` - x position center of the circle<br />
`y` - y position center of the circle<br />
`radius` - radius of the circle<br />
`from` - first arc angle in radians. May be negative<br />
`to` - second arc angle in radians. May be negative<br />
`red1` - first red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green1` - first green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue1` - first blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`red2` - second red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green2` - second green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue2` - second blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`alpha` - alpha channel 0..255<br />

#### drawpixels.pixel(buffer_info, x, y, red, green, blue, alpha)
Draw a pixel:

`buffer_info` - buffer information<br />
`x` - x position of pixel<br />
`y` - y position of pixel<br />
`red` - red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green` - green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue` - blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`alpha` - alpha channel 0..255. Optional parameter for rgba textures<br />

#### drawpixels.color(buffer_info, x, y)
Read color from a position in the buffer:

`buffer_info` - buffer information<br />
`x` - x position to get color from<br />
`y` - y position to get color from<br />

RETURNS:

`red` - red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green` - green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue` - blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`alpha` - alpha channel 0..255. Optional parameter for rgba textures<br />

#### drawpixels.bezier(buffer_info, x0, y0, xc, yc, x1, y1, red, green, blue, alpha)
Draw a bezier line between two points and one control point:

`buffer_info` - buffer information<br />
`x0` - x position of the first point<br />
`y0` - y position of the first point<br />
`xc` - x position of the control point<br />
`yc` - y position of the control point<br />
`x1` - x position of the second point<br />
`y1` - y position of the second point<br />
`red` - red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green` - green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue` - blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`alpha` - alpha channel 0..255. Optional parameter for rgba textures<br />

You can fill in a specific area. To do this, you need to identify the borders with `start_fill` method and call the `fill_area` method to fill the area. Borders work with: lines, gradient lines, circles, filled circles with anti-aliasing, pixels, arcs. <b>NOT WORK WITH FILLED ARCS AND GRADIENT ARCS.</b> The arcs themselves use this method, so the fill may not be predictable. Do not create arcs until you are done with the fill. Be sure to call the `end_fill` method when you stop working with the fill.

#### drawpixels.start_fill()
Indicates the start of border preservation.

#### drawpixels.end_fill()
Indicates the stop of border preservation.

#### drawpixels.fill_area(buffer_info, x, y, red, green, blue, alpha)
Fills an area at specified boundaries. Only for 4 channels:

`buffer_info` - buffer information<br />
`x` - x position of the start point<br />
`y` - y position of the start point<br />
`red` - red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green` - green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue` - blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`alpha` - alpha channel 0..255<br />

In order to draw this into a sprite, you need a separate atlas with power of two texture. Then we can use `resource.set_texture`:

```lua
resource.set_texture(go.get("#sprite", "texture0"), self.header, self.buffer_info.buffer)
```

In order to render this in gui, we just need to create a box and create a new texture.
We can use `gui.new_texture`. Then you need to set this texture to the box using `gui.set_texture`:

```lua
local data = buffer.get_bytes(self.buffer_info.buffer, hash("rgba"))
gui.new_texture("name", width, height, image.TYPE_RGBA, data)
gui.set_texture(gui.get_node("box"), "name")
gui.set_size(gui.get_node("box"), vmath.vector3(width, height, 0))
```

--------

If you have any questions or suggestions contact me: me@agulev.com

Commit message:

Fixed premultiplied alpha. Added circle example.

README.md, after:

# Draw Pixels

[Defold engine](http://www.defold.com) native extension for drawing pixels and simple geometry into texture buffer.

Feel free to contribute!

## Installation

You can use the Draw Pixels extension in your own project by adding this project as a [Defold library dependency](http://www.defold.com/manuals/libraries/).
Open your game.project file and in the dependencies field under project add:

>https://github.com/AGulev/drawpixels/archive/master.zip

## Example
![screenshot](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2209596/45321616-7f24e100-b54e-11e8-9821-00b1b2e36a97.jpg)

Main code example is [here](https://github.com/AGulev/drawpixels/blob/master/example/canvas.script)

## Lua API
First of all you need to create a table with a buffer information that contain next fields:

`buffer` - buffer<br />
`width` - buffer width, same as your texture width<br />
`height` - buffer height, same as your texture height<br />
`channels` - 3 for rgb, 4 for rgba<br />
`premultiply_alpha` - alpha value will be premultiplied into the RGB color values. Optional parameter. Default is false.<br />

For example:
```lua
local buffer_info = {
    buffer = buffer.create(1024 * 2048, -- size of the buffer width*height
    {{
      name = hash("my_buffer"),
      type = buffer.VALUE_TYPE_UINT8,
      count = 4 -- same as channels
    }}),
    width = 1024,
    height = 2048,
    channels = 4,
    premultiply_alpha = true
  }
```
Then when you have a buffer info, you can use next methods:

#### drawpixels.circle(buffer_info, pox_x, pox_y, diameter, red, green, blue, alpha, antialiasing, width)
Method for drawing circle:

`buffer_info` - buffer information<br />
`pox_x` - x position center of the circle<br />
`pox_y` - y position center of the circle<br />
`diameter` - diameter of the circle<br />
`red` - red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green` - green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue` - blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`alpha` - alpha channel 0..255. Optional parameter for rgba textures<br />
`antialiasing` - adds anti-aliasing. Only for 4 channels. Optional parameter.<br />
`width` - indicates the circle width. Only for circle with anti-aliasing. Optional parameter.<br />

#### drawpixels.filled_circle(buffer_info, pos_x, pos_y, diameter, red, green, blue, alpha, antialiasing)
Method for drawing filled circle:

`buffer_info` - buffer information<br />
`pox_x` - x position center of the circle<br />
`pox_y` - y position center of the circle<br />
`diameter` - diameter of the circle<br />
`red` - red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green` - green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue` - blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`alpha` - alpha channel 0..255. Optional parameter for rgba textures<br />
`antialiasing` - adds anti-aliasing. Only for 4 channels. Optional parameter.<br />

#### drawpixels.rect(buffer_info, pos_x, pos_y, rect_width, rect_height, red, green, blue, alpha)
Method for drawing rectangle:

`buffer_info` - buffer information<br />
`pox_x` - x position center of the rectangle<br />
`pox_y` - y position center of the rectangle<br />
`rect_width` - rectangle width<br />
`rect_height` - rectangle height<br />
`red` - red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green` - green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue` - blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`alpha` - alpha channel 0..255. Optional parameter for rgba textures<br />

#### drawpixels.filled_rect(buffer_info, pos_x, pos_y, rect_width, rect_height, red, green, blue, alpha, angle)
Method for drawing filled rectangle:

`buffer_info` - buffer information<br />
`pox_x` - x position center of the rectangle<br />
`pox_y` - y position center of the rectangle<br />
`rect_width` - rectangle width<br />
`rect_height` - rectangle height<br />
`red` - red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green` - green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue` - blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`alpha` - alpha channel 0..255. Optional parameter for rgba textures<br />
`angle` - rotation angle in degrees. Optional.<br />

#### drawpixels.fill(buffer_info, red, green, blue, alpha)
Fill buffer with the color:

`buffer_info` - buffer information<br />
`red` - red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green` - green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue` - blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`alpha` - alpha channel 0..255. Optional parameter for rgba textures<br />

#### drawpixels.line(buffer_info, x0, y0, x1, y1, red, green, blue, alpha, antialiasing, width)
Draw a line between two points:

`buffer_info` - buffer information<br />
`x0` - x position of one end of the line<br />
`y0` - y position of one end of the line<br />
`x1` - x position of the other end of the line<br />
`y1` - y position of the other end of the line<br />
`red` - red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green` - green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue` - blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`alpha` - alpha channel 0..255. Optional parameter for rgba textures<br />
`antialiasing` - adds anti-aliasing. Only for 4 channels. Optional parameter.<br />
`width` - indicates the line width. Only for line with anti-aliasing. Optional parameter.<br />

#### drawpixels.gradient_line(buffer_info, x0, y0, x1, y1, red1, green1, blue1, red2, green2, blue2, alpha, antialiasing, width)
Draw a gradient line between two points:

`buffer_info` - buffer information<br />
`x0` - x position of one end of the line<br />
`y0` - y position of one end of the line<br />
`x1` - x position of the other end of the line<br />
`y1` - y position of the other end of the line<br />
`red1` - first red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green1` - first green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue1` - first blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`red2` - second red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green2` - second green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue2` - second blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`alpha` - alpha channel 0..255<br />
`antialiasing` - adds anti-aliasing. Only for 4 channels. Optional parameter.<br />
`width` - indicates the line width. Only for line with anti-aliasing. Optional parameter.<br />

#### drawpixels.arc(buffer_info, x, y, radius, from, to, red, green, blue, alpha)
Draw a arc between two corners. If from < to the arc is drawn counterclockwise. If from > to the arc is drawn clockwise. Only for 4 channels:

`buffer_info` - buffer information<br />
`x` - x position center of the circle<br />
`y` - y position center of the circle<br />
`radius` - radius of the circle<br />
`from` - first arc angle in radians. May be negative<br />
`to` - second arc angle in radians. May be negative<br />
`red` - red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green` - green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue` - blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`alpha` - alpha channel 0..255<br />

#### drawpixels.filled_arc(buffer_info, x, y, radius, from, to, red, green, blue, alpha)
Draw a filled arc between two corners. If from < to the arc is drawn counterclockwise. If from > to the arc is drawn clockwise. Only for 4 channels:

`buffer_info` - buffer information<br />
`x` - x position center of the circle<br />
`y` - y position center of the circle<br />
`radius` - radius of the circle<br />
`from` - first arc angle in radians. May be negative<br />
`to` - second arc angle in radians. May be negative<br />
`red` - red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green` - green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue` - blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`alpha` - alpha channel 0..255<br />

#### drawpixels.gradient_arc(buffer_info, x, y, radius, from, to, red1, green1, blue1, red2, green2, blue2, alpha)
Draw a gradient arc between two corners. If from < to the arc is drawn counterclockwise. If from > to the arc is drawn clockwise. Only for 4 channels:

`buffer_info` - buffer information<br />
`x` - x position center of the circle<br />
`y` - y position center of the circle<br />
`radius` - radius of the circle<br />
`from` - first arc angle in radians. May be negative<br />
`to` - second arc angle in radians. May be negative<br />
`red1` - first red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green1` - first green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue1` - first blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`red2` - second red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green2` - second green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue2` - second blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`alpha` - alpha channel 0..255<br />

#### drawpixels.pixel(buffer_info, x, y, red, green, blue, alpha)
Draw a pixel:

`buffer_info` - buffer information<br />
`x` - x position of pixel<br />
`y` - y position of pixel<br />
`red` - red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green` - green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue` - blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`alpha` - alpha channel 0..255. Optional parameter for rgba textures<br />

#### drawpixels.color(buffer_info, x, y)
Read color from a position in the buffer:

`buffer_info` - buffer information<br />
`x` - x position to get color from<br />
`y` - y position to get color from<br />

RETURNS:

`red` - red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green` - green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue` - blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`alpha` - alpha channel 0..255. Optional parameter for rgba textures<br />

#### drawpixels.bezier(buffer_info, x0, y0, xc, yc, x1, y1, red, green, blue, alpha)
Draw a bezier line between two points and one control point:

`buffer_info` - buffer information<br />
`x0` - x position of the first point<br />
`y0` - y position of the first point<br />
`xc` - x position of the control point<br />
`yc` - y position of the control point<br />
`x1` - x position of the second point<br />
`y1` - y position of the second point<br />
`red` - red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green` - green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue` - blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`alpha` - alpha channel 0..255. Optional parameter for rgba textures<br />

You can fill in a specific area. To do this, you need to identify the borders with `start_fill` method and call the `fill_area` method to fill the area. Borders work with: lines, gradient lines, circles, filled circles with anti-aliasing, pixels, arcs. <b>NOT WORK WITH FILLED ARCS AND GRADIENT ARCS.</b> The arcs themselves use this method, so the fill may not be predictable. Do not create arcs until you are done with the fill. Be sure to call the `end_fill` method when you stop working with the fill.

#### drawpixels.start_fill()
Indicates the start of border preservation.

#### drawpixels.end_fill()
Indicates the stop of border preservation.

#### drawpixels.fill_area(buffer_info, x, y, red, green, blue, alpha)
Fills an area at specified boundaries. Only for 4 channels:

`buffer_info` - buffer information<br />
`x` - x position of the start point<br />
`y` - y position of the start point<br />
`red` - red channel of the color 0..255<br />
`green` - green channel of the color 0..255<br />
`blue` - blue channel of the color 0..255<br />
`alpha` - alpha channel 0..255<br />

In order to draw this into a sprite, you need a separate atlas with power of two texture. Then we can use `resource.set_texture`:

```lua
resource.set_texture(go.get("#sprite", "texture0"), self.header, self.buffer_info.buffer)
```

In order to render this in gui, we just need to create a box and create a new texture.
We can use `gui.new_texture`. Then you need to set this texture to the box using `gui.set_texture`:

```lua
local data = buffer.get_bytes(self.buffer_info.buffer, hash("rgba"))
gui.new_texture("name", width, height, image.TYPE_RGBA, data)
gui.set_texture(gui.get_node("box"), "name")
gui.set_size(gui.get_node("box"), vmath.vector3(width, height, 0))
```

--------

If you have any questions or suggestions contact me: me@agulev.com
